---
slug: erasmus+-y-cuerpo-europeo-de-solidaridad
lang: en
title: Erasmus + y Cuerpo Europeo de Solidaridad
image: image.jpg
projects:
  - taste-of-diversity
---

**Erasmus +** is the European Commission's Education, Training, Youth and Sport
Program for the 2014-2020 period. Erasmus + offers more opportunities for
mobility and cooperation in the education, training and youth sectors and is
easier to access than its predecessors. The program is open to students,
apprentices, teachers, professors, youth, volunteers, youth workers, and people
working in sports. For more information on how to participate or be our partner
in any of our projects, do not hesitate to contact us.

More information about the Erasmus + program:
http://www.erasmusplus.gob.es/index.html

Erasmus + project carried out by La Periférica: Tastes of Diversity: Arts,
Environment and Gastronomy. Youth Exchange with Spain, Germany and Morocco. Made
in the towns of Agdz and Timidarte in southern Morocco.

https://youtu.be/lkgdwwAUCdQ

Documentary "Taste of diversity: Arts, Environment and Gastronomy" made by video
artist Inés Bermejo about the experience in Morocco with the Youth Exchange of
the Eramus + program

## How the ESC works?

**The European Solidarity Corps (ESC)** is a European Union funding program that
creates opportunities for young people to volunteer, work, train and manage
their own solidarity projects for the benefit of communities across Europe. The
President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, announced his
creation in his annual State of the Union address, delivered in September 2016.
The European Solidarity Corps officially became operational in December 2017.
After a simple registration process, participants may be selected to join a
whole series of projects. The projects of the European Solidarity Corps will be
carried out by organizations duly accredited and authorized to carry them out.

ESC is a non-formal educational activity that allows young people **between the
ages of 18 and 30** to express their personal commitment through a **long-term
voluntary service with the costs paid**. Projects can be of community interest,
in the social, environmental or cultural field. People between **18 to 30 years
old** can participate, who want to dedicate their free time to solidarity
causes, motivated to discover other cultures and live closely with people from
other countries. You can apply for the European Solidarity Corps projects as
long as you are **30 years old at the start of the project**.

It is a **voluntary service with costs paid**. It is full time, for a minimum of
2 and a maximum of 12 months depending on the project, and always in a different
country from your own, whether within the European Union or outside it. The
European Solidarity Corps projects are carried out **throughout the year**. You
can request participation in a long-term project (ex: 10 months) even if you
have already completed a short-term project (in this case, 2 months, to reach
the 12-month limit). It cannot be done backwards. Volunteers improve or acquire
skills for their personal, educational and professional development. Their
scholarships are awarded by the European Commission in order for young Europeans
to carry out a voluntary activity. The ESC is developed through activities
organized in collaboration between legally established organizations that send
or host volunteers.

**The ESC program includes:**

- The cost of round-trip transportation to and from the country of origin
- Accommodation and food expenses during the project period An amount of pocket
- money (varies according to the cost of living of the host
  country)
- Health insurance during the months of volunteering Online language training in
- the language of the host country Tutoría personalizada con una persona
- responsable en el proyecto de acogida

**The following are part of the project:**

**Voluntary person**. Volunteer between the ages of 18 and 30 who wants to
participate in a long-term volunteer project with expenses paid.

**Host Organization**. It is an organization in a European country that has a
project of social, cultural or environmental interest where it has European
volunteers for its development.

**Support Organization**. It is an organization in the country of the volunteer
that accompanies the volunteer throughout the process: training, monitoring and
evaluation. La Periférica is an accredited organization for the support of
European volunteers, contact us and we will facilitate the process of sending
you to your favorite project.

ESC has three official calls in February, April, and October but you can get a
project throughout the year. You will be able to find projects in all the
countries of the European Union. In the following link you can find all the
projects that volunteers are looking for right now:
http://europa.eu/youth/volunteering/project_en

The ESC **has no costs for volunteers, it is free**, although in some cases they
have to buy the plane tickets themselves, which in all cases will be reimbursed
by the host organization. The program covers the cost of round-trip flights to
and from the country of origin; accommodation and food expenses during the
project period; an amount of pocket money (varies according to the cost of
living of the host country).

**Each project has different characteristics**. Accommodation is specified in
the description of each volunteer project. It varies a lot: Room in a shared
house with other volunteers, shared double room, independent house for the
volunteer ... each project has its own characteristics, although all of them
have to meet some minimum requirements for it to be a home worthy.

**Each project has different characteristics**. In some cases you may be with
more European volunteers in the host organization, in other cases they may be
local volunteers or you may be the only person volunteering in the European
project. In all cases you will have a tutor from the host organization who will
accompany and guide you throughout the process. The ESC is a great opportunity
for integration with the local community through volunteering, making each
experience unique and each format unrepeatable.

The ESC has **specific insurance for the volunteer** throughout the project
throughout the world, which begins on the day of departure and ends two months
after the return. During these two months, the insurance will only be valid in
the two sending and receiving countries.

The language of the project is **specified in the project description** although
in many of the projects English is requested as the language. In some specific
cases, a specific level of the local language may be requested (such as in
social volunteering with local people or volunteering in communication issues,
for example). In case a project is interested in your profile, it will have a
Skype interview to get to know you a little better and see your required
language level. However, the ESC offers online language training in the language
of the host country.

**How do I apply for a ESC volunteer?** Contact us and we will tell you.

More information on the European Solidarity Corps program:
http://www.cuerpoeuropeodesolidaridad.injuve.es/es
