---
id: who/intro
lang: en
---

We are a group of Cultural Managers from Almería that seeks to value cultural
life from an innovative vision.

La Periférica is a launch pad for projects that foster and promote talent and
creativity, the exchange of experiences and cultural cooperation.

Through artistic and cultural projects, our own and in collaboration with
others, we seek to activate citizen involvement and participation, as well as
reflection and action on contemporary challenges and issues. We understand the
different facets of contemporary art and culture (audiovisuals, music,
performing arts, anthropology, ecology, feminism, queer movement ...) as tools
for social transformation and as vehicles for citizen understanding and
cohesion. Thanks to the fact that we are a multidisciplinary and specialized
team in different fields of the cultural and creative sector, and with
extensive experience in cooperation and the third sector, both nationally and
internationally, we have managed to make La Periférica cover different lines of
action, from the conceptualization of own programs and projects, cultural
management and production, as well as the dissemination and promotion of
contemporary creation.

As cultural agitators, from La Periférica we conceive each project as a new
seed to create, from horizontality and collaboration, a better world for
everyone, promoting environmental and social sustainability we want to
contribute to greater solidarity, at the glocal level. All these values
​​cross and are transversal to the projects we carry out, from the
contents to the management itself.

At La Periférica we always work as a team, in a democratic way, exercising
listening as the main work tool. [We partner](/conexions), whenever possible,
with other networks of professionals and institutions, associations,
collectives, initiatives and projects with which we share visions, values and
ways of doing to achieve objectives. Furthermore, we work with numerous public
institutions with which our interests converge.
